# Why I Am Writing This
Starting down the path to become a self-taught full-stack developer can be a daunting task. There are a million articiles online, training courses and websites competing for your attention.  It can all seem a bit intimidating at best and confusing even on a good day.  I decided to provide some tips and decision points I faced to help out anyone on a similar path.  I also will let you know what I found to be distracting or didn't provide the value for money I was expecting.  These are all my opinions.  The intent of this to share with the community what has helped me along the way that I wish someone had written a guide when I first got started.  It's been fun to write.

## Picking a Text Editor
If you are a man's man and find IT tools to be a crutch and a hallmark of the weak and the mindless, your computer's **text document utility** is a match made in heaven for you.  Just right click on your mouse, select New, go to text document and start coding. John Wayne has nothing on you. Show the world how pure coders do it, Rambo style. 

For the rest of us more gentle souls, you have a few options.  You will hear a lot of people give you a long list of options and then tell you to pick 'what is best for you'.  As a newbie, I found this to be completely confusing.  You wouldn't be reading this if you knew your ass from a hole in the ground on this stuff so excluding the beauty of choice of life, let's simplify the vast choice out there and narrow it down to two.  Pick one, use it for a while, and when you meet up with a group of coders and if you realise the world has some new shiney tool that you have to have, flip once you have a bit of experience under your belt. For now, just pick one to get started.  Both of the following options are solid and you can't go wrong.   

**Atom** - this was my first love and a text editor that is both easy to use and quite elegant.  It isn't super confusing to understand, it has great support, the guys who run the site are uber client friendly and overall it is just a great tool. It's not a bad place to start.  (https://atom.io/)

**Visual Studio Code** - At first glance this text editor isn't as polished and sexy to use as Atom.  It also is developed by Microsoft and so there is always this anticipated dread of realising in the end it is utter bullshit once you need to do something more than 'out of the box' but oddly enough I've never hit this place with the tool.  It is actually quite good.  More, it is the go-to  editor most people are using in Boot Camps and on Udemy.  Finally, once you learn how to add extentions, connect to GitHub, etc. it is even more impressive. 
(https://code.visualstudio.com/)

Although Atom will always be my first love, you have places to go and people to see and being practical with your first 'big decision' is important.  Saying this, my suggestion is to go with **Visual Studio Code**.  Most people are using it right now and if you are going to take online classes, etc. you'll find most instructors use it so it is easier to follow courses.  
